# Some thoughts on Preregistration and Replication

by Rolf Zwaan

"We have our own Stapel" -- When the data is too good to be true, it will have problem.

Case of Stapel was investigated by Dirk meesters

Stapel's fraud for now showed part of iceberg.

(Ioannidis, 2005)
A (biological) research finding is less true when:
- N is smaller
- smaller effect size
-
-

## Psychological Self-Reflection:
Article: "Measuring the Prevalence of Questionable Research Practices with incentives for truth telling"
- Some questionable practices may constitute the prevailing research norm.

Title: "Questionable Research Practices Revisited"
QRPs are not the nrom

Title: "False-Positive Psychology: Undiscloed Felxibility in Data Collection and Analysis Allows Presenting anything as significant"

Joseph P. Simmons et al. Psychological Science(2011): 22: 1359-1386
p Value ~ Sample Size is a U shape.

`We ... demonstrate how unacceptably easy it is to accumulate (and report) statistically significant evidence for a false hypotheis.`

## Two solutions?
- Replication
- Preregistration

Inroduction and Comment on OSF RPP

## Crisis, What Crisis?
(metaphor by animals)
- Ostriches: "Psychology is not in Crisis" ... it is a normal part of how science works. Rolf disagree
- Small (yelling) Dogs: osf.io/4bzrz. Felix schonbrodt. Rolf disagree 
- Squid: Firtz Strack's facebook  ... social psychologist should turn the attention to public issue rather than methodological issues.  Rolf disagree
- 腐食動物:  Hunger promotes acquisition of nonfood objects @ PNAS   RPP is "p-hacking"   Rolf disagree
- ants: `Many Labs`  `RPR`  initiate the co-operative works   
- Owl: "Self-reflection should not become self-obsession" "A meta-perspective is essential for methodologists, but what can the rest of us do"

## Some practical tip
### Open up your science
- Data
- Methods
- Stimuli
- Reviews

### Peer Reviewers' Openness initiative
### Open reviews

## Preregiter
### Separate a priori from a posteriori analyses.
- intellectual hygiene
- stops you from fooling yourself and others
- takes up more time at the front end
- can be frustrating
- saves time in the end
- better data, better research

## Increase your power
### Power analyses
### Sequential analyses: "A better stopping rule for conventional statistical tests"
### Online resources like Mechanical Turk

## Replicate, but with Moderation
### Only if it's relevant to your own research or teaching
- If you want to build on someone else' research.
- If you want to know about the reliability of the findings you're teaching.

## Spellma    Revolution 2.0
### With small, incremental steps, we'll be getting there, slowly but surely.